Notes/Day4/project/fake-malware-simulation/README.md, before:

# 🛡️ Fake Malware Simulation and Response  

This project demonstrates how to **simulate a fake malware process in Linux** and then **detect and eliminate it** using process monitoring and management commands.  

It is designed as a beginner cybersecurity project to practice **incident response skills**.  

---

## ⚔️ What It Does  

- **Malware Simulation**:  

  A script (`malware.sh`) launches a background process that consumes CPU resources silently, similar to how real malware might behave.  

- **Incident Response**:  

  Another script (`response.sh`) scans running processes, identifies the fake malware, and kills it automatically.  

---

## 🛠️ Tools and Skills Demonstrated  

- Linux commands: `ps`, `top`, `htop`, `kill`  
- Foreground and background process management  
- Understanding of PIDs (Process IDs)  
- Bash scripting basics  
- Incident response mindset: detection → investigation → elimination  

---

## 🚀 How to Use  

1. Clone the repository: 

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/<yourusername>/fake-malware-simulation.git
   cd fake-malware-simulation

2. Make the scripts executable: 

    ```bash
    chmod +x malware.sh response.sh

3. Run the fake malware:

    ```bash
    ./malware.sh

This will start a hidden process that eats CPU.

4. Detect it manually:

    ```bash
    ps aux | grep yes
    top

You’ll see it running with high CPU usage.

5. Kill it automatically with the response script:

    ```bash
    ./response.sh

6. Verify it’s gone:

    ```bash
    ps aux | grep yes

## 📸 Screenshots

Screenshots included in the screenshots/ folder show:

- code of malware.sh (fake malware)

- code of response.sh (Scan process & kill it)

- The fake malware running in the background

- Process detection using ps and top

- The response script eliminating the process

- Verification that the system is clean

## 📖 Project Report

A detailed lab-style report of this project is available in report.md.
It includes objectives, steps taken, findings, and conclusions.

## 🎯 Why This Project Matters

This project shows the real-world mindset of a cybersecurity defender:

- Attackers hide processes on systems.

- Defenders must detect, investigate, and respond.

- Even simple skills like process monitoring are critical in real incident response.

- By simulating malware safely, I practiced how to spot unusual activity and neutralize it.

## 👤 Author

Built as part of my cybersecurity learning journey.
Connect with me on [LinkedIn](www.linkedin.com/in/munavir-m)

Commit message:

update README with project details

Notes/Day4/project/fake-malware-simulation/README.md, after:

# 🛡️ Fake Malware Simulation and Response  

This project demonstrates how to **simulate a fake malware process in Linux** and then **detect and eliminate it** using process monitoring and management commands.  

It is designed as a beginner cybersecurity project to practice **incident response skills**.  

---

## ⚔️ What It Does  

- **Malware Simulation**:  

  A script (`malware.sh`) launches a background process that consumes CPU resources silently, similar to how real malware might behave.  

- **Incident Response**:  

  Another script (`response.sh`) scans running processes, identifies the fake malware, and kills it automatically.  

---

## 🛠️ Tools and Skills Demonstrated  

- Linux commands: `ps`, `top`, `htop`, `kill`  
- Foreground and background process management  
- Understanding of PIDs (Process IDs)  
- Bash scripting basics  
- Incident response mindset: detection → investigation → elimination  

---

## 🚀 How to Use  

1. Clone the repository: 

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/<yourusername>/fake-malware-simulation.git
   cd fake-malware-simulation

2. Make the scripts executable: 

    ```bash
    chmod +x malware.sh response.sh

3. Run the fake malware:

    ```bash
    ./malware.sh

This will start a hidden process that eats CPU.

4. Detect it manually:

    ```bash
    ps aux | grep yes
    top

You’ll see it running with high CPU usage.

5. Kill it automatically with the response script:

    ```bash
    ./response.sh

6. Verify it’s gone:

    ```bash
    ps aux | grep yes

## 📸 Screenshots

Screenshots included in the screenshots/ folder show:

- code of malware.sh (fake malware)

- code of response.sh (Scan process & kill it)

- The fake malware running in the background

- Process detection using ps and top

- The response script eliminating the process

- Verification that the system is clean

## 📖 Project Report

A detailed lab-style report of this project is available in report.md.
It includes objectives, steps taken, findings, and conclusions.

## 🎯 Why This Project Matters

This project shows the real-world mindset of a cybersecurity defender:

- Attackers hide processes on systems.

- Defenders must detect, investigate, and respond.

- Even simple skills like process monitoring are critical in real incident response.

- By simulating malware safely, I practiced how to spot unusual activity and neutralize it.

---

## ⚙️ Repo Setup Notes

- This project enforces **LF line endings** for shell scripts using `.gitattributes` to ensure compatibility with Linux environments.

---

## 👤 Author

Built as part of my cybersecurity learning journey.
Connect with me on:

- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/munavir-m)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/munavir27/learning-journal)

---
